Since this tool is pretty useless without all three legs,
most monitoring systems come with all three
built-in or at least they provide us a path to handle all three things.
There are plenty of monitoring tools available.
Some are installable on-premises and others are Cloud-based services.
Likewise, some are easier to use,
while others are more robust or powerful.
The pros and cons are the same as with your CI/CD tools.
For the rest of this lesson,
we'll focus on Prometheus as our monitoring tool of choice.
I left a list of these tools in
the lesson text below in case you want to learn more about them.
I also listed which visualizer they use
since a few are built-in and others are a separate product.
For example, Prometheus uses Grafana,
which is a really slick and powerful data visualizer.
We're going to be focusing on Prometheus for this lesson,
so I wanted to show you a little bit of what Prometheus
can do with its visualization tool, Grafana.
We can keep an eye on our server in different aspects; server requests, memory,
CPU usage, logins, client-side,
full-page loads, and network traffic.
We can see how it's been doing over the past several minutes
and even zoom in on places that are strange.
For instance, this right here,
just in the past few minutes,
we've had a serious drop in server requests.
Is it possible that something is starting to go down?
I can actually zoom in on this section and get a closer look.
I can see that server requests have definitely dropped right here around 10:30.
Around the same time,
memory dropped as well and CPU,
actually there's a peak in CPU.
So we're able to see that that's actually going up.
Logins went down.
Here, client full-page load during this period right here, for a whole minute,
it looks like there's no reporting at all from client-side full-page loads.
So I'll bet the server actually went down for this period of time.
There was a hiccup here.
If we drill into this data even more,
we might be able to find the culprit of the problem just by looking at the data.